I talked a while ago about the idea of a
stream PC being outdated and obsolete
and a terrible way of thinking and I'm
gonna kind of prove that today by
showing you just how well of a stream
you could put together by using entry
level mostly entry level Hardware
[Music]
today's video sponsored by the Corsair
one pro I 200 compact workstation PC
hired by the Intel Core i 910 940 X 14
core CPU and NVIDIA 20 a DTI video card
the IEEE 200 is the best of both worlds
when it comes to water-cooled small
form-factor pcs for both work and play
to learn more about this tiny but
powerful professional-grade PC follow
the link in the description below so
this is you may recall as our AMD rig
that we've been using for a bunch of
different stuff lately I currently have
the 3300 ex reinstalled I also have
plopped in a GTX 2060 super graphics
card that I think is a perfect pairing
at the upper end of perfect pairing for
this particular CPU because when we did
our event original review we threw a 20
80 super in there and overclocked it to
look for things like bottlenecking the C
word whether or not it would occur and
no surprise it did occur but what we've
got right now is the 3300 X with XMP
profile 30 200 megahertz memory no
overclock whatever whatsoever on the CPU
I've changed nothing except for the fan
curve stick because I like to have
things run cooler and I don't like to do
noise optimization I just let things run
fast and loud and cool and 16 gigabytes
of memory it does have an x5 70 gigabyte
board in there however you can save
money on the build by just doing like a
B 450 you don't need to go to the next
570 and to be honest the x5 70 will have
no bearing whatsoever on the performance
that you're gonna see in today's
live-streaming tests because the x5 70
itself unless you're overclocking
anything is not going to have any sort
of impact on performance and that's only
gonna have an impact on stability
performance is still going to be
determined by the CPU itself so anyway
let's go ahead and show you guys some of
the settings that we're using here in
OBS
before we get into the settings and
stuff someone in the alley is working
and drilling on things and cutting so
you guys might hear some weird
background noise I apologize now but
moving forward but one thing I think we
can all agree upon here is that our
target is going to be 1080p 60fps stream
the reason why we're gonna also be
shooting for the 6000 megabits per
second upload or 6 megabit per second
upload or 6000 kilobits is because
that's the max upload rate that you can
send to twitch so obviously that's gonna
depend on your internet connection you
need to obviously have faster internet
and upload than that otherwise you will
saturate your entire upload which will
also affect your download speeds as well
because packets have to communicate back
and forth but that's internet speed
related that has nothing to do quite
honestly with the settings and the
stream quality that we're gonna be
looking at here in terms of hardware
impact on our rig itself now what will
happen is a lot of people will go I want
to build a second PC and use a capture
card so that I don't have any
performance hit on my main PC so we're
gonna kind of show you right now how
even with $120 CPU and not a big fat
super expensive powerful GPU is able to
get us in performance there's a couple
things we're gonna want to optimize in
OBS and I've already done a lot of it so
I'm gonna show you what those are if you
go to stream this is where you set up
the where you're setting your you know
who you're sending your information to
we're obviously going twitch output
though I'm leaving it on simple mode we
can go advanced where we get more
options but I don't want to confuse
people I want to show you guys just how
quick and easy you could set this up and
get an amazing stream we're gonna be
testing two different streaming encoders
software h.264 or x264 which is where
the CPU handles the transcoding of all
of the frames and then we've also going
to be testing hardware or env ENC
encoder which is nvidia z' new encoder
which is quite good actually
which is one of the reasons why I threw
a 20 60 super in here and not an AMD
graphics card because we want AMD
doesn't offer the hardware encoder or I
think they actually have one but it's
not as good as in videos I know it
sounds fanboy ish but ask anyone that
will tell you the Nvidia encoder is
really really good so we can test the
CPU in as well as the GPU itself audio
bitrate leaving that the same recording
quality this is all if you're recording
so all we care about is this part up
here so when you click on the video tab
this is
we're transcoding our resolution and
frame rate too so our base canvas that's
telling us what size is the actual thing
that is capturing first so 1920 by 1080
so we're using a 1080 or a 1440p panel
that's turned down to 1080 because
that's what we're assuming people are
going to be using it is still the
dominant resolution output scale is also
1920 by 1080 so there's no there's no
resampling happening in terms of
resolution rescaling so that's already
gonna be good for our transcode because
it's not having to do a resolution
change whether up or down that's harder
than leaving it the same and then common
FPS values this is the FPS that we are
targeting so it actually tells you right
here you have 25 pal the 24 ntsc 29.97
50 powell these are like european vs.
and us type of frame rates here just go
to 60 because like you said that is our
target and that's it that's all I
changed when it comes to the stream so
I'm gonna go ahead and apply on that
we're gonna test a couple of different
kinds of games a couple of different
kinds of games here we're gonna start
with csgo
if you go on Twitch and you look csgo is
still want to be very very very highly
watched genres on Twitch we're also
gonna do doom eternal because that is an
entirely different API when it comes to
graphics that's still using Vulcan which
is not DirectX and then we are going to
be going to battlefield 5 which is a
very demanding title so you're gonna
kind of see here as a small medium large
in terms of putting stress on this
particular CPU and we will be monitoring
our livestream right here this is a
livestream account that I set up just
for testing stuff like this so you're
never gonna see us really live stream on
this but if you ever catch it live I'm
sure people are gonna see the name and
you hop in there then who knows maybe
you'll see some of this stuff in the
future I also have all the stats sitting
up right here on the side so you guys
will be able to see what the impact hit
was now one thing you're gonna notice
with a high FPS game like this the live
stream is gonna actually seem a little
bit jittery because we are rendering 190
FPS however I've got the bomb an about
to die
however we are only capturing 60 of them
so one of the things that you can do to
actually make your live stream look
smoother this is a little tech tip is
lock your your gameplay at the FPS
you're streaming now obviously if you're
playing csgo or any high paced game
you're gonna want higher FPS just know
that if you're seeing stutters in the
stream it could be that because it is
not rendering all the frames it's only
rendering you know one frame every the
math that works out to so we could do
probably 120 FPS here but one thing to
keep in mind though is you're seeing
these high FPS is this is significantly
higher than the 60 FPS that we are
capturing for our live stream so if you
see any weird stutters or looks like
frame drops you literally are dropping
frames it's not capturing all of them so
if you're going to lock your frame rate
to anything lock it to a divisible
number of the FPS so if we're at 60 and
we do 120 it would actually look a lot
smoother than doing 144 or leaving it
here at the fluctuating 200 190 s-300s
but yeah if we look over here at the
live stream it looks good if we check
our settings we are getting 1080p 60
source and not looking too fuzzy or
anything if you look at our CPU usage
though as you can see we are looking
pretty good here lots of headroom our
GPU usage is only sitting at about 63 65
% that's pretty normal just because of
csgo itself is not a very demanding
title yes I know I'm kind of running all
over the place randomly here it's a
point I didn't die as I was running out
into the explosion alright so there's
that let's go ahead and move on to a
higher like a little bit more fast-paced
game something that's gonna be I think a
little bit more difficult obviously than
csgo to run and that is doom eternal so
now we're using doom eternal which is
Vulcan as you can see right here it's
Vulcan 1.1 1.2 s or 1 to 6 it doesn't
hook with window capture we are using
game capture for this one but you could
still see the telemetry is showing up
over here just fine on the quarter the
right side of the screen so we're
getting 337 STS in the menu anyway and
we moved monitor on this side so
Phil can move to a little bit easier
okay I can tell you in the game right
now it doesn't feel like there's any
performance hit now we are using the
software to encode if you can see right
now we are pegged 100% across the board
however you look at that Mouse but look
at the stream oh wow so as you can see I
was expecting doom eternal to not be
that hard for the CPU to run but as you
can see on the live stream yeah it is is
that it is incapable of doing it so one
thing you can try right here is setting
the CPU to a higher priority to where
we're letting the live stream take
priority over CPU usage instead of the
game so we're gonna set it to high right
now just to see if we can't get this to
smooth out a little bit like that but
the things we lost a lot of fps in the
game
we dropped we dropped down the 90 but
that's not all wheat that's that's not
the only thing we can do like we talked
about the 60 FPS is the priority so
let's drop this down to 720p stream
because I would much rather watch a 720p
60fps stream than a 1080p 30fps stream I
can tell you right now there's been
times I live streamed at 720p when I was
at on laptops and stuff PDX land and
stuff that I would go to and any time
there's that 30 what was it at 30 was it
at 30
no one ever once said why is it at 720
so we've got most of the FPS back if you
look at the live stream just jump around
so we've got our performance back so we
look the same inside the game we're well
above 100 FPS pretty close to our frame
rate our Hertz rating of the monitor at
144 but I could play this fight if I'm
live-streaming I don't a problem with
this so this is CPU priority is higher
highest and then if I wanted to I bet
you it's fluctuating a bit but I bet you
right now I could say I could bring this
down one priority tick get back at least
144 FPS at all times and then the
streams quality wouldn't suffer looks
like we're sitting much closer to that
130 140 mhm it's moving so fast it's
really hard to tell but our CPU is
staying in the green or FPS is staying
you super consistent if you look at that
green line in our stream even though
we're pegging 100 FPS or a hundred
percent on our CPU or the light stream
though look how smooth it is I know it's
funny I really can't tell much of a
fidelity change with 720 and 1080 yeah
so two things to take away from this
with dual eternal the CPU itself
perfectly capable of rendering a 720p
60fps live stream while gaming at 1080p
and staying at about 144 FPS of our
monitor with a 2060 super so there is
that but what about a title that is way
more demanding something like say
battlefield 5 alright so battlefield 5
we put all our settings back with our
CPU priority back to normal we put it
back to 1080p 60fps this title is
extremely extremely demanding and so I'm
expecting this to probably I'm not
expecting it to be good for another
tooth I'm making sure what our settings
are so we're dx12 enabled DXR is off
there's no way in hell you're going to
be
any good DX art gameplay even if you
weren't dreaming with a 20 60 super
Fremen limiter I'll do 120 all of our
settings are an ultra the reason why I'm
setting those to ultra still trying to
offload as much as I can to the GPU not
the CPU I the lower you make this the
more work you wait for the CPU because
you are rendering more frames and if it
already can't keep up three more frames
at it is only gonna cause more latency
and more stutters and more problems more
starters more problems I want them to
keep in mind with battlefield 5 is this
is a very demanding game I mean look in
the menu
you mean--you I'm at 106 and look at the
CPU usage and I'm not even yeah I'm not
even streaming yet so watch rebel's when
i hit start stream and remember we are a
software right now that usage on the cpu
and once I come down into the game oh oh
man look at this stream I know that's
probably being smoothed out on the video
oh no it's terrible that we camera two
which means it's really bad yeah it's
like a it's like a slideshow so as you
can see we're not even getting 60fps our
CPU is just completely hammered so what
we're gonna do right now is we're gonna
go ahead and go into our stream we're
gonna stop we're gonna switch it back to
n bec or I keep on n deck and bin
whatever however they pronounce it and
we are going to hopefully see an
improvement now you'll see the CPU usage
came down it's still really high but
it's no longer pegged and that's the
first thing we need but if you look at
the live stream now it still has some
stutters to it and the reason for that
again is the more the FPS fluctuates the
more that's gonna look stuttery to the
live stream because the live stream
really does need a consistent frame rate
because it's ring coding constant
bitrate so we really do need it to be as
smooth as possible now one way that we
can do that
is by coming into video and then turning
on our framerate limiter so if we come
in here to advance we can go frame rate
limiter and go down to 60 by doing that
you can see our CPU usage came down even
more and our fps is more locked to 60
and our livestream just got even
smoother let's see if I can't engage in
something here like a firefight or
something yeah both of us were like
flailing around oh I'm running towards
the bad guys I thought I got hit from
behind that's why I keep going that way
so I got a top bet now you like in the
bunch check this out we're gonna do
1440p 60 FPS I want to see how the
stream handles it now so getting the
sizing right is when your game mode or
exclusive full screen with battlefield 5
is really dumb in that it rescales it so
watch the stream over here watch beep
there we go whatever we can still see
the performance right yeah look at that
look at the GP usage now GP usage is
that 70% our CPU is in the 60s and 70s
on our utilization and our gameplay
we're actually playing at 1440 I think
that was an enemy tank for a second
which is probably pointing my small arms
fire at it you got hit by my explosive
man to take there was nobody anyway so
if this sort of shows you anything it's
that we do not need to have high-end
hardware to start entertaining people if
you guys want a live stream and you've
got hardware that's $120 CPU I mean this
is not a cheap GPU but as it's not the
super high-end anyway you can see we're
not utilizing our full GPU
when we start learning things too like
60fps and whatnot so even going with
like a 1660 TI you'd probably get very
comparable results to what we're seeing
right now and it still uses the same
encoder now one of the reasons why I say
you don't want to build a standalone
streaming machine is because any of the
money that you've taken to build a
second computer especially I've seen
people say I'm going to build two new
computers right now a gaming machine and
a streaming machine and if you're gonna
take the money
and build a second computer you're gonna
get much better results by taking that
money and adding it to the budget for
your gaming computer and get better
parts as a whole then you're not dealing
with any of the latency that can come
from capture cards you're not dealing
with the setup issues the only downside
that I can actually see is that for some
reason your coop machine crashes which
you're not doing crazy over clocks and
stuff it really shouldn't is your stream
won't go down if you're capturing it
with a second machine but the setup
complications of capturing all your
audio and your voice chats and all that
sort of stuff and having to have
everything run through the same HDMI
cable in terms of audio and then having
it split that way you this will here
everything is just a complete pain in
the ass versus just setting up your
stuff right and I've seen a lot of
people say that but you know you'd lower
end hardware even maybe right min and
hardware isn't very good at live
streaming because it's too much of a
stress though too much stress on the CPU
$120.00 CPU guys this is a system that
you could build for around a thousand
nish dollars it's not it's not crazy if
you had a thousand dollars to your
gaming machine budget that you were
already planning on building anyway
you'd definitely step it up an entire
tier and get even better results than
you're seeing right now so anyway this
is just a video I wanted to do showing
people that you don't need crazy
hardware to start live streaming
entertaining people and just having a
good time so sign up in the comments
below if you were using lower end
hardware and you have a live stream
what's it been like what hardware are
you using and how it's the general like
performance hit that you're seeing and
you find it playable or unplayable
anyway guys thanks for watching
sign up in the comments below if you
meet that criteria for commenting on the
hardware and as always we'll see you in
the next one
[Music]